
Required files for analysis:

1. It is necessary that for extracting signals, you have folders with the tdt files that are exported after the fiber photometry recordings. 
   When you finish the recordings with the tdt equipment, there will be an folder created on the tdt computer´s D:Drive, which contain all the necessary files of the subject 
   recordings. You need to have atleast one of these folders (i.e., have recordings from one subject) to perform analysis. 

   NOTE: It is important that you, when recording with single or dual fibers, make sure that the sensor type name is in
   the format "(Wavelength (405 or 465))(single letter)". For example, if you are recording two fibers and collecting the 
   data for the 405 and 465 wavelengths in both the fibers, examples of appropriate names are:
   
   Fiber 1:
	
   405A
   465A	

   The sensor name is then "A"
	
   Fiber 2:
	  
   405B
   465B

   The sensor name is then "B"

   Examples of inappropriate are:

   Fiber 1:
	
   A405
   A465

   Fiber 2:

   405AB
   465AB

   The sensor type have default names which should be compatible with the software.
   However, we have noticed that the TDT system sometimes incorrectly sets the wavelength
   for some channels. Thus, it is very important that you make sure (before recording) that the
   sensor type name is correctly set, and manually change it if you notice the 
   sensor type naming is incompatible with the software.

   Caution: For both single fiber and dual fiber recordings, the code is compatible only with 
   the wavelength names 405 and 465. E.g., if you record the fluorescence from the 410 and 470 wavelengths from
   a single fiber and name the channels:

   410A
   470A

   , the code will raise an error. This is due to a bit lazy writing of the code. 
   
   There are two solutions for this:

   1. Manually change the channel names to 
      405A and 465A, even though it is not the actual wavelengths.

   2. Change the code temporarily for these files. This would only require very small changes 
      in four lines of code, so shouldn´t be too hard. 

   Potentially I will fix this later, so any wavelength can be used in the name, if 
   the PD lab starts using other wavelengths than the 405 and 
   465 regularly. But since the PD lab have only been using the 405 and 465 
   as of now (2020-2022), I don´t think it should be that big of a problem.    	

2. If you want to perform peri event analysis, i.e., you want to extract the neural activity surrounding some specific time point of stimuli or behavior, 
   you need to provide timestamp files, for each subject, which contain the time points of the stimuli/behavior. 
   These files needs to be located in the corresponding subject folders and are required to be named "Timestamps_(name of behavior or stimuli)".
   
   For example, if you have five subjects named Animal 1 - Animal 5 and you want to perform peri event analysis on these animals for the time points of open
   arm entry in the EPM. In the subject folder of for example Animal 1 there needs to be a csv file which is called "Timestamps_open_arm_entry.csv"
   which contains the timestamps of open arm entry for Animal 1, and the same is true for Animal 2 - Animal 5.

   The name of the behavior or stimuli can be whatever you like (this will be further explained below). However, it is recommended that you don´t use
   spaces in your names, since that can screw up paths. So instead of for example "Timestamps open arm entry.csv", you name it "Timestamps_open_arm_entry.csv". 

   You can also have multiple different timestamps in the subject folders with different timestamp names. 

   The timestamp files also needs to have a column which tells the code about the time format of the timestamps.
   The format could either be in seconds (and the column name should then be "Seconds") or the format could also be the frame number. 
   If the time format is frame number, the column needs to have a name that includes the word "frame" in it. 
   The word frame could be in large or small letters, e.g., "Frame number", "Frame num", "FRAME", "frame". 

Here the input options will be described.

Maneuvering the first GUI:

- Upon executing the python code, if all required python packages are installed, the GUI will appeer. You will then see two input options:
	
	1. One of the input options consists of a button which says "Click here to import experiment PATH". When you click it, you will 
	   be able to browse and select your experiment folder, which will provide the script with the path to the experiment folder which 
	   need to contain all the tdt generated subject folders of that experiment.  This input is required to be provided and the code will otherwise raise 
           an error.
          	   
	2. The other option is a checkbox with the text "Use timestamps?". This refers to whether you want to import timestamps of behavioral events 
	   and extract the neural activity surrounding these behavioral events (what can be referred as peri event analysis). If you don´t want to do this
	   and simply want to see the total signal from the recordings, dont fill in the check and click the button "Click here to finish"
	   
	  If you want to also perform peri-event analysis and fill in the checkbox, you will be presented with several fields where you need to input further parameters:

	         2.1 The first input row contains one field with the corresponding text: "Enter stimuli here:". In this field you will input the name of the stimuli/behavior 
	         (e.g., foot_shock, open_arm_entry). This will be used to import the csv (Excel) file, which contain the timestamps of your selected behavior. 
		 Thus, if you input for example "open_arm_entry", there needs to a be a csv file in the subject folders called "Timestamps_open_arm_entry.csv" 
		 which contains the timestamps of open arm entry for those subject.
		
		2.2 The second input row contains two fields with the corresponding text "Enter range to extract here:". In these fields you will input 
		   the time range to extract the calcium activty around the behavioral event. The field to the left needs to have a negative number
		   and the field to the right needs to have a positive number
		   
		   If you for example you input -10 in the left field and 10 in the right field, you tell the script to extract, for each behavioral event,
		   the calcium activity corresponding to 10 seconds before and 10 seconds after the behavioral event. The inputs doesn´t to be 
 		   same absolute number, if you want to extract calcium activity 10 seconds before (by inputting -10 in the right field) and 5 seconds after 
		   (by inputting 5 in the right field), the code is perfectly compatible with that aswell. 

		2.3 The third input row contains two fields with the corresponding text: "Enter baseline time:". In these fields you will input the time range
		   in which the corresponding calcium activity will be used as baseline for Z-score conversion. This input format is the same as 
		   for the extracting range explained in the above section (2.2). You can read more about Z-score conversion here:
                   https://bookdown.org/anta8363/fluoR_bookdown/stand.html 
		   
		   For the baseline time range, it needs to be within the time range of the extraction range. If you have set the 
		   extraction range to be 10 seconds before to 10 seconds after, you can´t set the baseline time range to be 
		   11 seconds before and 11 seconds after for example, an error will be raised if you do so. 
		   It can at max be the same time range as the extraction range.

		   Setting the baseline is a bit arbitraire and varies between studies. A recommendation (which is described in the link about Z-scoring)
		   is that if you want to compare the calcium activity pre behavioral event vs post behavioral event (i.e., within peri-event effect) 
		   you should set the baseline as the same value as the extraction time range. But if you want to compare the post effect between 
		   different groups (perhaps from recordings from two different brain regions, i.e between peri-event effect), it is appropriate to only use a 
		   time range before the onset of the behavioral event. 

		   If you are setting the baseline only to pre onset, it would be good to set it so that it only includes a "resting period" where there is not stimulus or behavior. 
		   For example, if you are doing foot shocks each 10th second, you can set the baseline period at a time range where you know there is no foot shock.
		   This is much harder, if not impossible, in freely moving experiments, since the inter-trial period is dependent on the actions of the subject
		   but can be a good way to think about how to set the baseline time range. 

		2.4 The next rows contain three checkboxes (in their own row) and are placed under a "Parameters for statistical analysis" title. 
		    These checkboxes tells the code what features to extract for statistical analysis. Atleast one of these check boxes needs to be clicked, but you can
		    click all three if you prefer so. 

		    The statistical features that can be extracted are:
		    
		    - Area under curve, which is a way of calculating the area under the calcium and trace. This combines 
                      x (Time) and y (Intensity) variables into one value

		    - Z-extreme, which calculates either the maximum or minimum Z-score of an area. 

		   
		    - Average Z-score, which calculates the average Z-score of a specified time range. 
                      This also combines x (Time) and y (Intensity) variables into one value.

		   Upon clicking one of these checkboxes, four fields will appear (in the row of the clicked checkbox), in which you will fill in the 
                   time ranges for the analysis. 
		   Two of the fields will be positioned under the "Pre" text, and two of the fields will be positioned under the "Post" text.

		   For example, if you click the "Use Area under curve?" and fill in -4, -1 for the fields under the "pre" text and 2, 4 for the fields under
		   the "post" text, the script will extract the area under the curve for two different time ranges. 
		   First, the area under the curve will be extracted for the calcium activty corresponding to the time range between 4 seconds before
 		   the behavioral event and 1 second before the behavioral event.
		   Secondly, the area under the curve will be extracted for the calcium activty corresponding to the time range between 2 seconds after
 		   the behavioral event and 4 second after the behavioral event.

		   This input time format will be the same for all the features. However, if you click the "Use Z-extreme" checkbox, there will
		   also appear two checkboxes with a corresponding "Calculate Z-max or Z-min". Clicking these checkboxes will tell the code
		   if you want to calculate the Z-maximum or Z-minimum of the specified time ranges. 

		   There isn´t many recommendations on which feature among the three to use. However, these features are often used in published work, 
		   which is why this code offers these three alternatives. 	
	   
       		2.5 When you have inputted all the information, click on the "Click here to finish" button to run the analysis. 

Maneuvering the second GUI:

- If you have provided the GUI with subject tdt files which were recorded using two different sensor types (i.e., two different fibers), 
  a second option will appear which will provide two checkboxes with the sensor type names in front of the checkboxes. 
  You will then have to click in one of the sensor and the code will extract the data from that sensor type and perform 
  the analysis. You need to click in one of the checkboxes, and you can´t click in both of the checkboxes. When you have clicked in on 
  of the checkboxes, press the "Click here to finish" button to continue with the analyis. 

  Note, you can mix subject folders which contain tdt recordings with single and dual fiber. 
  The code works so that for the first subject folder read in the code, if it only contain one sensor type  (i.e.,, 
  it will set that as the sensor type for all subjects in the experiment path. However, 
  if the first read subject folder, contains two fibers, it will ask you what sensor type to use,
  and use that for the all subjects in the analysis.  If the chosen sensor type doesn´t exist for a 
  specific subject, it will skip that subject for the analysis. 

Output from analysis. 

- If everything goes as expected, a folder in the experiment path you provided will be created which is called "Results (name of experiment path folder)".  
  If you have recorded using two fibers, the sensor type selected in the second GUI, will also be included in the folder name. The folder name will then be called
  "Results (name of folder with all the subject folders containing the tdt files), (name of sensor type)". For example, if you have provided 
  the path to your experiment folder, called EPM experiment,  which containes folders with tdt files from two sensor types from an elevated plus maze
  experiment and you selected "Sensor type A", then the folder name will be "Results EPM experiment, sensor A". 

  In this folder, if you didn´t check the "Use timestamps" checkbox, there will only be one folder which is called "Figures of entire recordings". In this folder, there will be figures (in tiff format)
  which contains signals of the whole recording for each subject. One figure will contain the signals of 4 subjects. 

  There will be three types of figures in this figure. One figure type containing the raw signals (calcium dependent and independent) of the subjects. One figure containing the raw calcium-dependent signal
  and the calcium-independent signal fitted to calcium dependent using least-squared linear regression, and lastly one figure only containing the calcium-dependent signal which 
  has been subtracted with the calcium-independent signal. 

  If the checkbox "Use timestamps" was checked, then another folder will be created inside the results folder which is called "Output perievent analysis".
  In this folder, there are two folders called "Data" and "Figures". 

  In the "Data" subfolder of the "Output perievent analysis", there are four csv files. 

  One of the csv files, called "Perievent individual animals", will contain the data for the peri-event traces for each subject, averaged across all the trials of the individual subjects. The error will also be displayed in the right adjacent folder. 
  The error will be either in standard deviaton or standard error of the mean, depending on which error type you chose. Note, this error is based on 
  the variance of the peri-event between the trials of one subject. 

  Another csv file, called "Perievent averaged trace", will contain the peri-event trace averaged across all the subjects. Thus, this trace is the product of two averages. First the average of the peri-events for all the trials 
  for each subject, and second the average of the now averaged peri-events for each subject. The column adjacent to this trace will also contain the error (std or SEM dependent on the users selection). 

  Another csv file, called "Statistical_analysis" will contain the results for the chosen statistical measurement that will be used to perform statistical analysi (e.g., AUC). An important thing to note is
  these values are extracted from the averaged peri-events for the individual subjects, and are not extracted from the peri-event averaged across the subjects. 

  The last csv file, called "Settings for peri event analysis" will contain the settings used in this experiment. That includes:
  
  - Extraction time range
  - Baseline time range
  - The chosen statistical measure(s) time range(s)
  - Number of subjects included in the analysis
  - Number of trials of the behavioral event per animal
  - The stimuli/behavior chosen for the event. 
  - The error type chosen for the analysis. 
  
  Note that the number of subject folders might not be the same as the number shown in the 
  "Number of animals" column in this csv file. This is most likely due to the code removing
  the subject from analysis and might be due to several reasons. 
  
  - Tdt file of one or more subjects can´t be read.
  - Timestamp files of one or more subjects can´t be found.
  - Data from the provided sensor type can´t be found. 
  - The timestamps are too close to the beginning or end of the recording and are all removed,
    so the timestamp files becomes empty and the subject is removed from the analysis. 

  If anything of this occurs, an error message will pop up and tell you that the subject 
  has been removed from analysis.

  In the "Figures" subfolder of the "Output perievent analysis" are two figures (in tiff format). One figure showing the peri event traces for all subjects
  (corresponding to the data in the "Perievent individual animals" csv file) and another figure showing the peri event trace
  averaged across all subjects (corresponding to the data in the "Perievent averaged trace" csv file).
   


      
   
  
  
 

		    
		   

		    
		   
	

	   


		
	 
	
	  
	   

	
 

