Instructions for using Movie_making.py to create animations of calcium data aquired using fiberphotometry

Required files for analysis:

- A folder containing tdt files from one recording.

- An ffmpeg.exe file. This is already provided in the github repo,
  and if you run the Movie_making.py file from its original folder,
  the script will find the ffmpeg.exe file by itself.  


Here the input options will be described.

Maneuvering the first GUI:

- Upon executing the python code, if all required python packages are installed, the GUI will appeer. The gui contains multiple input rows. 


	1. The first input row consist of a button which says "Click here to import subject PATH". When you click it, you will 
	   be able to browse and select your subject folder (NOT experiment folder), which will provide the script with the path to the subject recording which 
	   will then be used to generate the animation. This input is required and the code will otherwise raise 
           an error. 

	2. The second input row contains one field with the corresponding text: "Enter start time of animation:". In this field you will input the 
	   start time of the animation. 

	3. The third input row contains one field with the corresponding text: "Enter duration of animation:". If you want the animation to be
           for example 20 seconds, you input that into the field. 

	   So if you want to have a animation from the time range 30-40 seconds of the video, you first enter 30 into the "Enter start time of animation" field and then 
	   enter 10 into the "Enter duration of animation" field. 

	4. The fourth input row contains two fields with the corresponding text: "Enter baseline time range:", which will be used for Z-score conversion. 
	   The input for the time ranges differs a bit from the fiber photometry analysis code. In this script, the acceptable time range is between 0 to the inputted duration, where 0 represents the start of the video.
	   So if you have set the duration to 20, the max baseline time range is 0-20s. 

	   So in this code, zero does not represent time of behavioral event, but rather onset of video. So if you have a behavioral event at 11 seconds, in your video 
 	   with a duration of 20 seconds, and you want the 5 seconds before the event to be used as time range for Z-score conversion, then you would input 6-11 into the baseline entry fields. 

	5. The fifth input contains a field with the corresponding text: "Enter title for video". The inputted text will be used as title for the animation. 
	   If you leave this blank, the animation will be made without a title.


Maneuvering the second GUI:

- If you have provided the GUI with subject tdt files which were recorded using two different sensor types (i.e., two different fibers), 
  a second option will appear which will provide two checkboxes with the sensor type names in front of the checkboxes. You need to fill in atleast one of these checkboxes.
  By clicking the checkboxes you tell the script to plot the trace of the selected sensor in the animation. You can select both checkboxes, which will tell the script to plot
  the traces of both the sensors in the animation plot. 

  If you select both sensors, then there will appear two rows with the texts "Enter legend names for Sensor X". If you fill in these entry fields,
  the inputted text will be plotted as legend names in the animation.

Output:

The script will output an mp4 file and be named "{Parent folder of subject folder}, {subject folder} animation.mp4", it will be outputted in the parent folder
of the subject folder you inputted to the script.

 
		 

	 